Kafka client code examples (#753)
redpanda-data/documentation: docs/platform/development/code-examples.mdx

```python title="consumer.py"
from kafka import KafkaConsumer

consumer = KafkaConsumer(
  bootstrap_servers=["localhost:9092"],
  group_id="demo-group",
  auto_offset_reset="earliest",
  enable_auto_commit=False,
  consumer_timeout_ms=1000
)
consumer.subscribe("demo")

for message in consumer:
  topic_info = f"topic: {message.topic} ({message.partition}|{message.offset})"
  message_info = f"key: {message.key}, {message.value}"
  print(f"{topic_info}, {message_info}")
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Running

<Tabs groupId="lang">
<TabItem value="go" label="Go" default>

```bash
# Create the topic
go run admin.go
# Produce some data
go run producer.go
# Consume it back
go run consumer.go
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="js" label="Node.js" default>

```bash
# Create the topic
tsc admin.ts && node admin.js
# Produce some data
tsc producer.ts && node producer.js
# Consume it back
tsc consumer.ts && node consumer.js
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="py" label="Python" default>

```bash
# Create the topic
(.env) python3 admin.py
# Produce some data
(.env) python3 producer.py
# Consume it back
(.env) python3 consumer.py
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Wrapping up

> In this example you have developed the building blocks of a Redpanda client

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this example you developed the building blocks of a Redpanda client
```

application that creates a topic, produces messages to, and consumes messages
from a Redpanda cluster running in a local environment, or in Redpanda Cloud.

> The code provided in this example is intentionally simple to help you get
> started. For more advanced examples, including how to build stream processing
> applications that can aggregate, join, and filter your data streams, check out
> the following links:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The code provided here is intentionally simple to help you get
started. For additional resources to help you build stream processing
applications that can aggregate, join, and filter your data streams, see:
```

environment on your platform of choice. If you already have a Redpanda Cloud
cluster, then you're good to go; this example will show you how to connect to that too.

:::caution
If you're running Redpanda on your laptop, or in a shared development
environment, then avoid using Redpanda's optimized production settings. Running
`sudo rpk redpanda tune all` or manually configuring Redpanda for production
might affect your experience with other applications running on your machine.
:::

## Prepare the client environment

<Tabs groupId="lang">
<TabItem value="go" label="Go" default>

Download and install Go from [go.dev](https://go.dev/doc/install).
This Kafka client code example uses the [franz-go](https://github.com/twmb/franz-go) 
library.

```bash
# Create and enter the project folder
mkdir redpanda-go; cd redpanda-go
# Initialize the project
go mod init com/redpanda/example
# Install required dependencies
go get github.com/twmb/franz-go
go get github.com/twmb/franz-go/pkg/kadm
go get github.com/twmb/tlscfg
go get github.com/twmb/franz-go/pkg/sasl/scram@v1.9.0
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="js" label="Node.js" default>

> Download and install Node.js from [here](https://nodejs.org/en/download).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Download and install Node.js [here](https://nodejs.org/en/download).
```

This example uses the [KafkaJS](https://kafka.js.org/) library.

```bash
# Create and enter the project folder
mkdir redpanda-node; cd redpanda-node
# Generate package.json (the default values are fine)
npm init
# Install required dependencies
npm i -D typescript
npm i -D @types/node
npm i kafkajs
# Generate tsconfig.json
tsc --init
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="py" label="Python" default>

Download and install Python 3 from 
[python.org](https://www.python.org/downloads). This example uses the
[kafka-python](https://kafka-python.readthedocs.io/en/master/) library.

```bash
# Create and enter the project folder
mkdir redpanda-python; cd redpanda-python
# Create virtual environment
python3 -m venv .env
source .env/bin/activate
# Install dependencies
(.env) pip install kafka-python
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Create topic

> Let's get started by creating your first Redpanda topic. You can create a topic
> using Redpanda's command line interface 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can create a topic using Redpanda's command line interface 
```

    // cert: fs.readFileSync("client.crt", "utf8"),
    // key: fs.readFileSync("client.key", "utf8"),

    // Custom CA is only required if you are using self-signed certificates
    // ca: fs.readFileSync("ca.crt", "utf8")
    },
    sasl: {
      mechanism: "scram-sha-256",
      username: "<TODO: change this to your service account name>",
      password: "<TODO: change this to your service account password>"
    }
})
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="py" label="Python" default>

```python
from kafka import KafkaProducer

producer = KafkaProducer(
  bootstrap_servers="<TODO: change this to your cluster hosts>",
  security_protocol="SASL_SSL",
  sasl_mechanism="SCRAM-SHA-256",
  sasl_plain_username="<TODO: change this to your service account name>",
  sasl_plain_password="<TODO: change this to your service account password>",
  
  # mTLS client certificate and private key can be downloaded from the
  # Overview tab in the Redpanda Cloud UI:
  # ssl_certfile="client.crt",
  # ssl_keyfile="client.key",

  # Custom CA is only required if you are using self-signed certificates
  # ssl_cafile="ca.crt"
)
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Create producer

> Now that you have a topic, you can create a producer and send some messages:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After you have a topic, you can create a producer and send some messages:
```

---
title: Kafka Client Code Examples
---

<head>
    <meta name="title" content="Kafka client code examples | Redpanda Docs"/>
    <meta name="description" content="How to produce to and consume from Redpanda in a variety of languages."/>
</head>

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

> Redpanda is Kafka® API-compatible, which means that despite Redpanda being a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Redpanda is Kafka API-compatible, which means that despite Redpanda being a
```

new streaming data platform, you can leverage the countless client libraries
that have been created for Kafka. If you find something that is not

> supported, reach out to our team in the community
> <a href="https://redpanda.com/slack">Slack</a>.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
supported, reach out to our team in the community <a href="https://redpanda.com/slack">Slack</a>.
```
